Hey guys, my name is Fernando from Cisco Audi and today I'm going to show you exactly how internet works in general. Now if you ever got marshmallow bullets, I know you know what I'm talking about there. If you ever died around a wall in an FPS game like Call of Duty, Valorant, CSGO and League of Legends even. This applies to all gaming in general and today we're finally going to solve the riddle here because what I noticed overall is basically a lot of gamers have just not been able to get the accurate amount of information.
 information when it comes to internet and a lot of internet suggestions in general are based off of business suggestions, not gamer suggestions. So I'm going to show you after tuning 10,000 gaming setups in general, and for the lowest latency, including professional players, I'm going to show you exactly how to reduce the amount of delay you have to get an advantage over your competitors in general, welcome to the first sense quality gamers guide. And the topic number one, we're going to tackle is internet.
 here. So my name is Cornel. I'm from SenseQuality. I'm the founder of SenseQuality.com. And what we do is we optimize professional gamers or professional players internet optimize over 10,000 like gaming setups in general. So I'm going to show you exactly the secrets that I've seen work on over 10,000 gaming setups here. So I'm going to start with the basics and you're going to have to stick with me on this one, because if you don't understand the basics and you're not going to understand how to fix it. So the first thing that I see a lot of gamers go through is.
 basically their connection type so it's either you're connected via ethernet which is just a wire going to your pc or going to your playstation or whatever console that you have or wireless now you have to be aware that if you're wanting the best connection possible you're gonna wanna ethernet plugged into your system because that's going to deliver you overall just low latency in general and that's gonna solve about like 40 of your issues right there a lot of gamers struggle
 because they have the disadvantage of being on Wi-Fi and then you're susceptible to environmental factors. So for example, if they have a wall next to you and your router, that wall is going to increase the latency that your bullets take to register. So you're going to want to overall reduce the amount of latency and reduce the amount of overall bandwidth that you're using from that Wi-Fi and you're gonna wanna plug it in via ethernet there. Basically, the first step is just to check your router in general.
 most people, they still have like an ISP router. They still have that default one that you're obtaining like from your internet service provider. And the reason why as a gamer, this is bad is because number one, ISP routers, like they don't update their router. So you are already behind schedule when it comes to actually getting like the best out of your internet there. Number two, their routers are usually cheap and usually like come with a lackluster of features. So basically you don't get QoS, you don't get the proper.
 or port forwarding or UPnP that you need. As a gamer you're going to need a different type of skill set within that router or different type of features in order to get the most out of your game. Basically what you can do is get a gaming router what I would suggest is a NETDUMA R2 I'll put the links down below NETDUMA R3 any kind of Asus gaming router is good or a NETGEAR XR500 should be good there. Those are the top three gaming routers there and that should improve your performance overall just by switching.
 the router app so that's going to be number one so basically make sure that you switch out your ISP router guys because it's going to actually save you money to actually switch them out which is the crazy part. So for example ISPs usually charge you around $30 to $50 a month to have their equipment when you could just buy your own router save $30 to $50 a month and within three to four months that's going to pay off itself plus you get better internet in general. So definitely buy your own router it's going to be worth it trust me no matter what internet you get.
 have so the next thing that you want to focus on is the modem all this does is it translates the signal from your isp to a language that your home internet could understand that's all it does there so for fiber what you would want to do is you want to put it in a bridge mode right so that way when you get your new fancy gaming router you have your fiber your modem going straight to your router and that's going to absolutely reduce your overall latency there and you're not going to get something called double nap where two things are affected
 your internet it's the same thing for a modem if you have something called a gateway which is a modem and a router put together what you want to do is put that in bridge mode and what that is going to do is it's going to make sure that you only have one thing doing natting on your internet in general so you can successfully get an open nat type a lot of people make the mistake of buying their own gaming router just plugging it in and not putting the gateway that they have in bridge mode and it's very important that you do that the next thing if you are on cable internet what you want to do is you want to make sure
 that that coaxial cable is as tight as possible because a lot of the time what happens with cable is if that coaxial is not tight you're going to get something called interference and you're going to get packet loss a lot of jitter on your internet and a lot of just variance in general and in game you don't want a lot of variance you want as consistent as possible so what you want to do is you want to overall just tighten that coaxial cable and that should fix it hands down there. Alright so I'm going to get into how to finally fix it now that you finally got through the hard part here. So basically the first
 thing you're going to do is you're going to download ping plotter it really helps a lot that's the graph that i'm using if you're interested you're going to download that you can plot for different kind of websites so ping plotter dot pingman.com is the one i'm plotting right here you do google's dns server which is 8.8.8.8 you could do google.com you could do twitter.com whatever you want basically the reason why you want to plot for is because you could see from the different kind of websites exactly how your internet is being treated right so when you're trying to fix it you don't want to only focus on one point you want to focus on
 four different servers that way you know that you're overall improving your internet in general and basically the way you read the graph is basically this is time right and then the y-axis is actually latency so that's how much delay that you have what you want to overall do in general right is reduce the amount of latency that you are obtaining overall on your internet connection that is the name of the game you're getting any of these red spikes that means you're actually getting packet loss and you're
 actually losing connection and that's really bad so you really want to fix that too and you want to make sure you're not getting any of that right there the reason why you want to reduce latency is to reduce the amount of lag that you obtain to reduce the amount of bullet delay in general and increase the amount of bullet registration that you have so your bullets are more consistent you're not shooting marshmallow bullets in general and it's going to decrease the amount of overall movement delay so that way you're not dying around walls or dying around corners and then it's going to decrease the amount of disadvantage that you have against other gamers here and it's actually
 going to increase your advantage because 70% to 80% of gamers that we see at a disadvantage when it comes to their internet and it's one of the most looked over things they have a $5,000 PC they have the best $300 controller and then their internet is average at best and this is one way you can get a high amount of advantage over the regular gamer there and I would definitely suggest that so then you want to know the impact on latency so this is from one of our optimizations at sensequality.com this is basically
 when we tested it with our optimization with reducing the amount of latency. And this is the connection without like the optimization in general. I'll tell you exactly what we did. So basically there's two things that we did. So the first thing was we applied something called QoS quality of service on their gaming router. And the next thing that we did was we ensured that all of their devices were acting in sync with each other. And we ensured that they had of course port forwarding or UPnP or any of that. So basically as.
 could see here this is how to read it guys because this might look a little crazy to you at first but i promise you it's not that bad the overall goal is just to make sure that you're getting the lowest latency possible and what you can do to test your internet is actually what i suggest is running a speed test on speedtest.net or waveform.com you could run a speed test and track what the graph is doing so during this is actually not even just their router at default this is actually their router under pressure because
 Most of the time, what happens is your internet, it's not only you on the game, right? It's your actual phone, it's your actual like security cameras, which is brutal. It's your brother in the other room playing. So you wanna make sure that when your internet's under pressure, right? You wanna make sure that it's the best possible scenario. So when we did a speed test for this particular client here, what happened was with the optimization, we reduced the latency to 40 milliseconds, which is right here, right? And without the optimization, this is what was happening to his internet. So you see these.
 spikes right here, that's him losing gunfights, that's him dying around walls, that's him getting marshmallow bullets in general and overall for a gamer, it's not only about speed, it's about latency as well and nobody tells you exactly how to reduce your latency and that's exactly what I'm telling you here. You gotta use QoS, you gotta get a gaming ladder, you gotta do your port forwarding, you gotta do these things because look at the difference of this guy's internet. That is 760 milliseconds under load. This is called buffer bloat, right?
 when your internet's actually saturated right and your router's trying to guide you know the traffic because your router is just a traffic stop it increases the amount of latency that you get and it's not going to show up on your ping it's going to show up as hidden latency and the only way you could see this hidden latency is if you test it on graphs like ping plotter and stuff as you could see this man went from 760 milliseconds to under 40 milliseconds in general so now he has a consistent game his bullet registration is absolutely amazing he is frying in game he's not dying around war
 walls and he has an advantage over his competitors because what people don't understand about gaming servers is this gaming servers only update every couple of milliseconds. For example, like Call of Duty, they have 60 hertz servers. I believe they have 12 hertz servers as well, 120 hertz servers as Valorant in those little increments, right? The server is trying to see who is delivering that message first, barring lag compensation as well. So if you have insistent internet like this one to the left, you're going to actually get that message. 
 message to the server first and the server is going to register your bullets first and then register that you won that gunfight first right so basically a lot of gamers they get into a gunfight and then they're like how did I just lose that gunfight there's no way I just lost that gunfight I hit every single bullet and you can hit every single bullet but if you're hitting latencies up to 800 milliseconds it's like 10 extra bullets in game right if you're playing call of duty or something that is 10 extra bullets imagine that if it's 760 milliseconds what happens
 is the server registers you late even though you did the right thing so then you lose the gunfight and this is exactly why latency matters for gamers it's not only about the speeds but the latency the lower your latency is the better overall let's see here so the impact on speed right so basically for games right you don't need 5,000 down and 5,000 up contrary to popular belief unless like you're a pro player or something like that right for games you realistically you want to look at your upload speed
 A lot of internet service providers tell you about the downloads, especially cable internet service providers. And basically they tell you that you have gigabit internet. So what do they mean by gigabit? So basically if I'm an internet service provider, I'm like, Hey, listen, you're getting a thousand down gigabit internet, right? That's tricks, right? You want to ask them what's the actual upload because uploads, what matters to gamers in general, your download definitely matters. But usually the internet service providers, they're really skimpy on the uploads, especially cable internet. And most.
 you have cable now for fiber both of them are usually the same so you're good but for cable internet you want to ask them what is the upload because your upload is what's sending out your information and you want to make sure that you have as much upload as possible now the amount of upload i would suggest is 40 upload or more is usually like the best when it comes to internet in general when it comes to low latency but really all you need for gaming is eight upload but remember you want to make sure that you have enough bin
 with in order to handle all those security cameras, your son or your brother on Tik TOK, you want to make sure that you're not having your phone like upload in the background and uploading Apple update or something in the background. You want to have space for all that stuff. So that's why I would suggest over 40 upload or more, and that will improve your overall internet, like in general. So the next thing that we want to talk about is packet loss. Okay. So basically like, I'm going to show you just a quick before and after from another sense quality internet optimization here. Basically the red.
 means that you are losing connection and this is very very tricky because sometimes this doesn't even show up as packet loss in your game that's why you really want to check this stuff and that's why i'm giving this stuff to you guys for free after this is exactly what happened after we configured his connection to what it needed right so this gamer in particular was actually obtaining packet loss uh because their line was pretty bad right and number two they were obtaining packet because i believe like they had a coaxial that wasn't tight right
 So basically they tightened up the coaxial that fixed it. Basically we called the ISP to improve the line and that fixed it as well. So the reason why you want to do these testing guys is because when the ISP comes and tells you everything's good, all they're doing is a speed check, right? So basically if you have this data, if you have four of those pictures, right? Four of these pictures showing that you have packet loss, then the ISP has to do something about it. If you don't have these, then they're just going to tell you it's good. And they're just going to move on with their day there. So that's why you want to test this on Ping Plotter. That's why you want to
 see exactly if you're getting any kind of packet loss. And what does packet loss do to your game? So let's say you're shooting a bullet at an enemy in Call of Duty or Valorant and you're getting packet loss. That bullet's never gonna get there, right? And sometimes you don't even know that you're getting packet loss and you're not even knowing that you're getting marshmallow bullets because that bullet's not even registering to that server. Remember when I said that server's checking to see if you sent that bullet or not first and if you hit your enemy? Well, if the bullet never gets there, you never sent the bullet, right? According to the server. So that's why.
 you want to reduce the amount of packet loss you have and you realistically want no packet loss. So what we did was not only reduce the packet loss for this person, but we overall reduced the latency as well. So that's pretty good right there. So let's see here. How do we fix it? So basically one of the ways to fix it, or two of the ways is QoS, which is quality of service on your router. QoS on gaming routers are a lot better. What QoS is, is prioritizing like your gaming package over other types, right? Like video streaming or your mom watching TikTok or something like that. Or your
 your child like on Netflix or something like that, right? So what you want to do is you want to prioritize your packet so it goes first, so it reaches that server first. And then the next thing that you want to do is you want to port forward. So usually you could just check online what ports are compatible with the type of game that you use and you want to go on your router and you want to port forward those ports. Now there's a trick to this. So if your router has something called UPnP, which is universal plug and play, that is realistically like a automatic port forward issue.
 So if you're already on an open NAT type, I wouldn't even worry about port forwarding because that means that you're good. You'll check that in your game to see if you're on an open NAT type or not. But basically, if you just want to make sure, of course you can go ahead and port forward. I'm just letting you know that usually routers nowadays have universal plug and play, which automatically port forwards for you. So basically, this is just like an overview of the most common internet issues for gamers. So number one is high latency. Number two is packet loss. And number three is low network speeds. And number four would be getting your own router, of course. If you've got fakes. If you've got fakes.
 all three of these right here you're going to automatically have an advantage over 70 to 80 percent of other gamers there because most gamers do not have all three of these knocked down especially number two so basically i hope this helped guys and i hope you enjoyed this and if you need any extra help you can go on sensequality.com down below and we could definitely help with improving your overall internet or your overall fps so you could get an advantage over other gamers there but i just wanted to thank you and let me know if you have any questions down in the comments there and let me know how we can improve these or
 what we should make our next gaming sense quality live show about. So I hope this helps and have a great, wonderful rest of your day.
 